2010-12-18

Ludum Dare Log:

Pre competition.

I need to choose between Actionscript, Unity and Java as a development environment.

For every ludum dare so far I have used ActionScript. But my games are getting kind of samey, I do the same things every time.

Unity makes 3D easy (and more or less compulsory) and may be a good way to get attention and points in the judging rounds.

Java is my best language. I've been reluctant to use it for game dev in the past, but since Notch used it effectively last compo,

3:01 PM

theme is DISCOVERY

ok, it's paper planning time.

3:29 PM

Ok, it's time to play all of my previous LD games. And think where i go wrong.

All my old games are a bit sameish and I could continue making things similar - 
i.e. a space ship (or whatever) exploring a 2D space while collecting something.

That fits this theme quite well.

Um, gotta make a decision. It doesn't even matter what it is, just make one.

I'd love to make a metroidvania. But I don't have the frameworks set up for that.
But I could.

i could make a what-i-always-make except in java.

I don't feel like using Unity ATM. although: it could be awesome.

UNITY:

Drop in a first person controller, make a funky landscape,
some misc clever ideas and i would be done.

I could remake my unfinished sauerbraten game. that would be cool.
 
 It needs:
 
 1. first person controller (free in Unity)
 2. Beautiful level (I'll learn how to do it in Blender)
 3. Collectable 'Mario Coins" - a trivial rotate script, some bloom and it's done.
 4. the energy beams of light to follow
 5. the enemies - rudimetary AI - hmmm
 
 is this possible?
 
 can I do this?
 
 more importantly, can I in the next 22 minutes decide to commit to this and do it?
 
 ....
 .......
 
 so many ideas, I wanna do them all! But be rational Matthew, there are three LDs per year and i'll have
 chances to make every game I want.
 
 OK. I'm going to remake my unfinished game 'Sauer Test' but in Unity.
 
 Pros: no design time, since i've already designed it
 I obviously can't reuse the assets but they're trivial anyway.
 OK, time to play it and think about it.
 
 Biggest risk: Building the level, how do you do that? Unity primitives is the WRONG thing to do.
 Blender etc, cool but how do I texture it?
 
 OK, i'm going with Unity. (So say goodby to this eclipse project.)